force-scheme
============

Force Scheme Visualization Technique

On improved projection techniques to support visual exploration of 
multi-dimensional data sets
Eduardo Tejada-Gamero, Rosane Minghim and LuisGustavo Nonato
http://www.lcad.icmc.usp.br/~nonato/pubs/TejadaEtAl.pdf

Abstract:
Projection (or dimensionionality reduction) techniques have been used as a means
to handling the growing dimensionality of data sets as well as providing a way
to visualize information coded into point relationships. Their role is essential
in data interpretation and simultaneous use of different projections and their
visualizations improve data understanding and increase the level of confidence
in the result. For that purpose projections should be fast to allow multiple
views of the same data set. In this work we present a novel fast technique for
projecting multi-dimensional data sets into bidimensional (2D) spaces that
preserves neighborhood relationships.  Additionally, a new technique for
improving 2D projections from multi-dimensional data is presented, that helps
reduce the inherent loss of information yielded by dimensionality reduction. The
results are stimulating and are presented in the form of comparative
visualizations against known and new 2D projection techniques. Based on the
projection improvement approach presented here, a new metric for quality of
projection is also given, that matches well the visual perception of quality.
We discuss the implication of using improved projections in visual exploration
of large data sets and the role of interaction in visualization of projected
subspaces.
